.TH YUM-AUTOSKIP "5" "May 2019" "Outrun" "Outrun manual"
.SH NAME
yum-autoskip \- change repository mirrors or disable them using local config files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/yum/mirrors
is the configuration directory for yum autoskip. For each repo id, a file can be placed which replaces the
repository's mirrorlist= parameter.
.P
A special file with the name 'disabled' can be placed that configures repositories that should be completely disabled.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Autoskip will first look for a file named /etc/yum/mirrors/disabled
and disable any repo id that matches the patterns in that file.

Then for each repo, autoskip will look for a file named
/etc/yum/mirrors/<repoid> and change the 'mirrorlist=' parameter to this file.

Then for each enabled repo, it will try to reach the mirrorlist url (or baseurl if mirrorlist
is not configured) and disable the repo if the url is not reachable.

This helps on networks without internet access to redirect YUM to a local
mirror (ftp or http) without changing the repo definitions (as these may get
overwritten during YUM updates). If the local mirror does not respond then
YUM would still failback to the original baseurl/mirrorlist which would
not be the case if we modded the .repo files directly.

In case failovermethod is set to 'priority' this leads to the locally defined
urls to be tried first, before baseurl and the repo's mirrorlist. This avoids
errors before switching to alternative mirrors on restricted LANs.

.SH OPTIONS
None
.SH EXAMPLES
Say you want to configure a local mirror for CentOS 7. The default repo ids for CentOS are base, extras, updates.
You also want to block extras, All without messing with the CentOS-Base.repo file.
.br
Your local web server running the repo mirrors is repo.example.net and has repo mirrors under /yum/mirror/centos/7/
.br
Add the following files in /etc/yum/mirrors/:
.P
base:
.nf
http://repo.example.net/yum/mirror/centos/$releasever/os/$basearch
.fi
updates:
.nf
http://repo.example.net/yum/mirror/centos/$releasever/updates/$basearch
.fi
disabled:
.nf
extras
.fi
.SH FILES
/etc/yum/pluginconf.d/autoskip.conf
.br
/etc/yum/mirrors
.SH "KNOWN ISSUES"
\- Cannot re-enable a repo with --enablerepo=<repoid> once disabled.
.br
\- FTP based repos currently not tested for reachability
.br
\- Breaks if the plugin does not load BEFORE fastestmirror.py (which is
why I renamed it to 'autoskip')


.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2018 Bart Sjerps <bart@outrun.nl>
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.PP
If you have suggestions for improvements in this tool, please send them along via the above address.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
yum(8)

